
  “And whereas, well affected and industrious English inhabitants, of
  the towns of Providence, Portsmouth and Newport, in the tract
  aforesaid, have adventured to make a nearer neighborhood and society
  with the great body of the Narragansets, which may, in time, by the
  blessing of God upon their endeavors, lay a sure foundation of
  happiness to all America; and have also purchased, and are
  purchasing of and amongst the natives, some other places, which may
  be convenient, both for plantations, and also for building of ships,
  supply of pipe staves, and other merchandise.

  “And whereas the said English have represented their desire to the
  said Earl, and commissioners, to have their hopeful beginnings
  approved and confirmed, by granting unto them a free charter of
  civil incorporation and government; that they may order and govern
  their plantation in such a manner, as to maintain justice and peace,
  both among themselves, and towards all men with whom they shall have
  to do. In due consideration of the said premises, the said Robert,
  Earl of Warwick, governor in chief, and lord high admiral of the
  said plantations, and the greater number of the said commissioners,
  whose names and seals are hereunder written and subjoined, out of a
  desire to encourage the good beginnings of the said planters, do, by
  the authority of the aforesaid ordinance of the Lords and Commons,
  give, grant, and confirm, to the aforesaid inhabitants of the towns
  of Providence, Portsmouth and Newport, a free and absolute charter
  of incorporation, to be known by the name of _The Incorporation of
  Providence Plantation, in the Narraganset Bay, in New-England_.
  Together with full power and authority, to rule themselves, and such
  others as shall hereafter inhabit within any part of the said tract
  of land, by such a form of civil government, as by voluntary consent
  of all, or the greater part of them, they shall find most suitable
  to their estate and condition; and, for that end, to make and ordain
  such civil laws and constitutions, and to inflict such punishments
  upon transgressors, and for execution thereof, so to place, and
  displace officers of justice, as they, or the greatest part of them,
  shall by free consent agree unto. _Provided_, _nevertheless_, that
  the said laws, constitutions, and punishments, for the civil
  government of the said plantations, be conformable to the laws of
  England, so far as the nature and constitution of the place will
  admit. And always reserving to the said Earl, and commissioners, and
  their successors, power and authority for to dispose the general
  government of that, as it stands in relation to the rest of the
  plantations in America, as they shall conceive, from time to time,
  most conducing to the general good of the said plantations, the
  honor of his Majesty, and the service of the State. And the said
  Earl and commissioners do further authorize, that the aforesaid
  inhabitants, for the better transacting of their public affairs, to
  make and use a public seal, as the known seal of the Providence
  Plantations, in the Narraganset Bay, in New-England. In testimony
  whereof, the said Robert, Earl of Warwick, and commissioners, have
  hereunto set their hands and seals, the fourteenth day of March, in
  the nineteenth year of our sovereign lord King Charles, and in the
  year of our Lord God, 1643.

                                                    ROBERT WARWICK,
                                                    PHILIP PEMBROKE,
                                                    SAY AND SEAL,
                                                    P. WHARTON,
                                                    ARTHUR HASLERIG,
                                                    COR. HOLLAND,
                                                    H. VANE,
                                                    SAM. VASSAL,
                                                    JOHN ROLLE,
                                                    MILES CORBET,
                                                    W. SPURSTOW.[394]”


                           NOTE F. page 226.

The following document, written, evidently, by Mr. Williams, is an
appropriate introduction to the charter of the town of Providence.

“To our loving and well-betrusted friends and neighbors, Gregory Dexter,
William Wickenden, Thomas Olney, Robert Williams, Richard Waterman,
Roger Williams, William Field, John Greene, John Smith, John Shippett.

“We, the greater part of the inhabitants of this plantation of
Providence, having orderly chosen you at our town meeting this 16th of
the 3d mo. 1647, to appear for us, at the General Court of this colony,
to be held at Portsmouth, on Rhode-Island, upon the 18th of this inst.
month, desiring the Lord’s providence for your safe arrival there, we
all voluntarily assenting, do hereby give you full power and authority
as followeth: First, to act and vote for us respectively or otherwise,
as if we ourselves were in person, for the settling of this General
Court for the present, and for the composing of it into any figure for
the future, as cause shall require. Secondly, to act and vote for us as
aforesaid in the choice of all general officers, as need shall require.
Thirdly, if the General Court shall consist of but ten men for each
town, then you are to act accordingly for this town; and if the General
Court shall be reduced into a fewer number, which, for divers
considerations, we conceive may be for the best, then we give you full
power to choose from among yourselves, such a number of our loving
neighbors as shall answer the same figure, unto whom, being orderly
chosen by you, we do give you power to transfer this our commission,
giving of them full power to act and vote for us, the inhabitants of
this plantation, in all general affairs, and for the settling of the
island in peace and union, and for all matters that shall concern this
particular town, desiring a careful respect unto these ensuing
instructions. But, if the Court shall consist of ten of each town, then
our desires are, that this our commission, with the ensuing
instructions, may remain entire in your hands.

“First. That we may have a true copy of our charter assigned unto us by
the General Court, for the proper use of our plantation.

“Secondly. We do voluntarily and are freely willing to receive and be
governed by the laws of England, together with the way of administration
of them, so far as the nature and constitution of this plantation will
admit, desiring, so far as possibly may be, to hold a correspondency
with the whole colony in that model that hath been lately shown unto us
by our worthy friends of the island, if the General Court shall complete
and confirm the same, or any other model as the General Court shall
agree upon according to our charter.

“Thirdly. We desire to have full power, and authority to transact all
our home affairs, to try all manner of causes or cases, and to execute
all manner of executions entirely within ourselves, excepting such cases
and executions as the colony shall be pleased to reserve to general
trials and executions.

“Fourthly. We desire to have full power and authority to choose, ordain,
authorize and confirm, all our particular town officers, and also that
the said officers shall be responsible unto our particular town, and
that there may be no intermixture of general and particular officers,
but that all may know their bounds and limits.

“Fifthly. We desire to have an exact and orderly way open for appeals
unto General Courts, that so, if any shall be justly grieved at any
sentence passed or otherwise, he or they may make their lawful charge
for relief there.

“Lastly. Whereas, it was hinted in that which our worthy friends
         unto us, that each town should have a charter of civil
incorporation, apart, for the transacting of particular affairs, if the
Court shall proceed so far as to agitate and order the same, then we
give you full power, on our behalf, to move and procure any thing beside
these instructions, that in your wisdom you conceive may tend unto the
general peace or union of the colony and our own particular liberties
and privileges, provided you do all, _or the most of you, unanimously_
agree therein, and always reserving our equal votes and equal privileges
in the general.

“Thus betrusting you with the premises, we commit you unto the
protection and direction of the Almighty, wishing you a comfortable
voyage, a happy success, and a safe return unto us again.

                       “Your thankful friends and neighbors,
                                               “ROGER WILLIAMS,
                                                           _Moderator_.”


                  _Charter of the Town of Providence._

“Whereas, by virtue of a free and absolute charter of civil
incorporation, granted to the free inhabitants of this colony of
Providence, by the Right Honorable Robert, Earl of Warwick, Governor in
Chief, with the rest of the honorable commoners, bearing date the 14th
day of March, anno. 1643, giving and granting full powers and authority
unto the said inhabitants to govern themselves and such others as shall
come among them, as also to make, constitute and ordain such laws,
orders and constitutions, and to inflict such punishments and penalties,
as is conformable to the laws of England, so near as the nature and
constitution of the place will admit, and which may best suit the estate
and condition thereof, and whereas the said towns of Providence,
Portsmouth, Newport and Warwick are far remote each from other, whereby
so often and free intercourse of help in deciding of difference and
trying of causes and the like cannot easily and at all times be had and
procured of that kind is requisite; therefore, upon the petition and
humble request of the freemen of the town of Providence, exhibited unto
this present session of General Assembly, wherein they desire freedom
and liberty to incorporate themselves into a body politic, and we, the
said Assembly, having duly weighed and seriously considered the
premises, and being willing and ready to provide for the ease and
liberty of the people, have thought fit, and by the authority aforesaid
and by these presents, do give, grant and confirm unto the free
inhabitants of the town of Providence, a free and absolute charter of
civil incorporation and government, to be known by the Incorporation of
Providence Plantation, in the Narraganset Bay, in New-England, together
with full power and authority to govern and rule themselves, and such
others, as shall hereafter inhabit within any part of the said
Plantation, by such a form of civil government, as by voluntary consent
of all, or the greater part of them, shall be found most suitable unto
their estate and condition, and to that end to make and ordain such
civil orders and constitutions, to inflict such punishments upon
transgressors, and for execution thereof, and of the common statute laws
of the colony, agreed unto, and the penalties, and so many of them as
are not annexed already unto the colony Court of Trials, so to place and
displace officers of justice, as they, or the greater part of them,
shall, by one consent, agree unto. Provided, nevertheless, that the said
laws, constitutions, and punishments, for the civil government of the
said Plantation, be conformable to the laws of England, so far as the
nature and constitution of the place will admit, yet always reserving to
the aforesaid General Assembly, power and authority so to dispose the
general government of that plantation, as it stands in reference to the
rest of the plantation, as they shall conceive, from time to time, most
conducing to the general good of the said plantation. And we, the said
Assembly, do further authorize the aforesaid inhabitants to elect and
engage such aforesaid officers upon the first second day of June
annually. And moreover, we authorize the said inhabitants, for the
better transacting of their public affairs, to make and use a public
seal, as the known seal of Providence Plantation, in the Narraganset
Bay, in New-England. In testimony whereof, we, the said General
Assembly, have hereunto set our hands and seal, the 14th of March, Anno
1648.