
1. Mary, born at Plymouth, the first week in August, 1633. Whether she
was married or not, is uncertain. In Mr. Williams’ book against George
Fox, he speaks of his daughter _Hart_, as residing in Newport. Mary may
have married a person of this name.

2. Freeborn, born at Salem, the end of October, 1635. Of her, nothing
further is known to me.

3. Providence, born at Providence, the end of September, 1638. He died
unmarried, in Newport [another account says, in Providence] March,
1685–6.

4. Marcy, born July 15, 1640. She was married to Resolved Waterman, of
Warwick, by whom she had four sons and one daughter. After his death,
she was married to Samuel Winsor, of Providence, by whom she had two
sons and one daughter. After his death, she was married to —— Rhodes, of
Pawtuxet, by whom she had several children.

5. Daniel, born February 15, 1641–2. He married Rebecca Power, widow of
Nicholas Power. He died May 14, 1712. He had five sons, Peleg, Roger,
Daniel, Joseph, Providence. Peleg had four sons, Peleg, Robert, Silas,
Timothy; and two daughters, who were married to Daniel Fisk and John
Fisk. Roger had two daughters, one of whom was married to Jonathan
Tourtellot, and the other to David Thayer. Daniel died unmarried. Joseph
had two sons, Benoni and Goliah. Providence had one daughter, Elizabeth.

6. Joseph, born the beginning of December, 1643. He married Lydia Olney,
December 17, 1669. He had three sons, Joseph, Thomas and James. Joseph
had one son, Jeremiah, and eight daughters, who were married to Francis
Atwood, William Randall, Joseph Randall, John Randall, William Dyer,
Benjamin Potter, Benjamin Congdon, John Dyer. Thomas had three sons,
Joseph, Thomas and John, and several daughters. James had four sons,
James, Nathaniel, Joseph and Nathan.

Joseph Williams lived, for several years, on a farm in Cranston, three
or four miles from Providence, where he died, August 17, 1724, in the
eighty-first year of his age, and was buried in the family burying
ground, on the farm, where his grave stone now stands, with this
inscription:

“Here lies the body of Joseph Williams, Esq. son of Roger Williams, Esq.
who was the first white man that came to Providence. He was born 1644.
He died August 17, 1724, in the eighty-first year of his age.