   (_c_) _Headquarters and Divisional Troops 2nd Division_

Mounted Brigade: Headquarters and main body Supply Column (from
Frere), Medical unit.

Divisional Troops: a battery of Royal Field Artillery, Ammunition
Column, Supply Column (from Frere), Field Hospital (from Frere).

Corps Troops: 2 squadrons 13th Hussars, 2 guns 66th Battery Royal
Field Artillery, 2 naval 4·7-inch guns, Supply Column (from Frere).

To move from Chieveley (except where otherwise mentioned) by the
Frere-Springfield road to the camp south of Pretorius Farm, except
that one squadron 13th Hussars for the 5th Division and 2 guns 66th
Battery Royal Field Artillery will be left at Frere.


                  5TH DIVISION AND ATTACHED TROOPS

The following troops will move on the evening of 10th January from
Frere to Springfield, under the orders of the Lieutenant-General Sir
C. Warren, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.:--


                           _5th Division_

4th Infantry Brigade.

11th Infantry Brigade.

Divisional Troops.


                           _Corps Troops_

10th Brigade.

Artillery--

  61st Battery Royal Field Artillery (Howitzer).

  78th Battery Royal Field Artillery.

  Ammunition Column.

Engineers--

  Pontoon Troop.

  Balloon Section.

  Section Telegraph Division.

Supply Park.


On 9th January the following explanatory memorandum was issued from
Frere Camp:--

  1. The General proposes to effect the passage of the River Tugela,
  in the neighbourhood of Potgieter’s Drift, with a view to the
  relief of Ladysmith.

  2. Forces (already detailed) will be left at Chieveley and Frere to
  hold these points, while the remainder of the army is operating on
  the enemy’s right flank.

  3. Springfield will be seized and occupied, and the march of the
  main body and supplies to that point will be covered by a force
  encamped about Pretorius Farm.

  4. With reference to Field Orders, dated 8th instant, paragraph 2
  (_a_), the primary duty of Major-General Hildyard’s column is to
  protect the march of the troops from Frere to Springfield during
  the formation of a supply depôt at Springfield, but he will also
  operate so as to induce the enemy to believe that our intention is
  to cross the River Tugela at Porrit’s Drift.

  5. As stated in paragraph 2 (_b_) and (_c_) of the Field Order
  above quoted, the remainder of Lieut.-General Clery’s force will
  encamp south of Pretorius Farm. Major-General Hart will, under
  General Clery’s orders, assist in every way the supply columns
  as they pass his camp, and he will also be prepared to support
  Major-General Hildyard, if necessary.

  6. On the afternoon of the 10th instant General Clery will send
  a sufficient force from the Mounted Brigade, with Artillery, to
  reconnoitre, and, if possible, occupy Springfield.

  7. The force under General Warren’s command (Field Order, dated
  8th instant, paragraph 3) will reach Springfield on the morning of
  the 11th instant, in support of the mounted troops referred to in
  paragraph 6 of this order.

  8. The General Commanding-in-Chief will proceed to Springfield on
  the 11th instant.

Between 10th and 13th January the whole Natal Field Force, except
the 5th Brigade covering Colenso, was in motion from Chieveley,
Frere, and Estcourt, concentrating on Springfield within five miles
of Potgieter’s Drift (Spearman’s or Mount Alice). This position was
seized by the cavalry on 11th January, on which day General Buller
telegraphed home that he had occupied the south bank of the Tugela at
Potgieter’s Drift, and seized the pont, that the river was in flood,
and the enemy strongly intrenched four and a half miles to the north.

The objective was the advance to Ladysmith by forcing the passage
of the Tugela at Potgieter’s, and, with this in view, maps of the
country about the drift were issued, with an account of the road
from Potgieter’s to Ladysmith. Upon reconnoitring the Boer positions
on the hills in front of Potgieter’s Sir Redvers Buller, however,
came to the conclusion that they were too strong to be taken by
direct attack, and on 14th January he directed Sir Charles Warren to
reconnoitre Trichard’s Drift, some six miles higher up the river to
the westward, with a view to the possibility of crossing there and
advancing to the west of Spion Kop and getting round to the north of
that hill.

On 15th January the following secret orders were issued by Sir R.
Buller to Sir C. Warren:--

  1. The enemy’s position in front of Potgieter’s Drift seems to me
  to be too strong to be taken by direct attack.

  2. I intend to try and turn it by sending a force across the Tugela
  from near Trichard’s Drift, and up to the west of Spion Kop.

  3. You will have command of that force, which will consist of the
  11th Brigade of your Division, your Brigade Division, Royal Field
  Artillery, and General Clery’s Division complete, and all the
  mounted troops except 400.