 'Tis sung, there's a valiant Mameluke

     In foreign lands ycleped (Sir Luke)-

                      HUDIBRAS.


And hence, probably, Molière's "Mamamouchi"; and the modern

French use "Mamalue." See Savary's Letters, No. xl.


[FN#138] The name of this celebrated succesor of Nineveh, where some
suppose The Nights were written, is orig.           (middle- gates)
because it stood on the way where four great highways meet. The Arab.
form "Mausil" (the vulgar "Mosul") is also significant, alluding to the
"junction" of Assyria and Babylonis. Hence our "muslin."

[FN#139] This is Mr. Thackeray's "nose-bag." I translate by
"walking-shoes" the Arab "Khuff" which are a manner of loose boot
covering the ankle; they are not usually embroidered, the ornament
being reserved for the inner shoe.

[FN#140] i.e. Syria (says Abulfeda) the "land on the left" (of one
facing the east) as opposed to Al-Yaman the "land on the right." Osmani
would mean Turkish, Ottoman. When Bernard the Wise (Bohn, p. 24) speaks
of "Bagada and Axiam" (Mabillon's text) or "Axinarri" (still worse), he
means Baghdad and Ash-Shám (Syria, Damascus), the latter word puzzling
his Editor. Richardson (Dissert, lxxii.) seems to support a hideous
attempt to derive Shám from Shámat, a mole or wart, because the country
is studded with hillocks! Al-Shám is often applied to Damascus-city
whose proper name Dimishk belongs to books: this term is generally
derived from Damáshik b. Káli b. Málik b. Sham (Shem). Lee (Ibn
Batùtah, 29) denies that ha-Dimishki means "Eliezer of Damascus."

[FN#141] From Oman = Eastern Arabia.

[FN#142] Arab. "Tamar Hannà" lit. date of Henna, but applied to the
flower of the eastern privet (Lawsonia inermis) which has the sweet
scent of freshly mown hay. The use of Henna as a dye is known even in
Enland. The "myrtle" alluded to may either have been for a perfume (as
it is held an anti-intoxicant) or for eating, the bitter aromatic
berries of the "Ás" being supposed to flavour wine and especially Raki
(raw brandy).