sky grows dark and the evening star comes out, Khapun comes flying from
where he lives, and hovers over the church. He beats on the windows
with his wings, and looks in to choose his prey. But when midnight
comes, that’s when the Jews begin to get really frightened. They light
all the candles to give themselves courage, fall down on the floor, and
begin to scream as if some one were cutting their throats. And while
they are lying there squirming Khapun flies into the room in the shape
of a great crow, and they all feel the cold wind of his wings blowing
across their hearts. The Jew whom Khapun has already spotted through
the window feels the devil’s claws sinking into his back. Ugh! It makes
one’s flesh creep even to tell of it, so just think what the poor Jew
must feel! Of course he yells as loud as ever he can. But who can hear
him when all the rest of them are yelling like lunatics, too? And maybe
one of his neighbours does hear him, and is only glad it isn’t himself
who is in such a sorry plight.

Kharko himself had heard more than once the pitiful, clear, long-drawn
notes of a trumpet floating out over the city. It was a novice in
the synagogue trumpeting out a farewell call to his unfortunate
brother, while the rest of the Jews were putting on their shoes in the
entry--Jews always go into church in their stocking feet--or standing
in little groups in the moonlight, whispering together on tip-toe,
staring up at the sky. And when the last man has gone, one lonely pair
of shoes is left lying in the entry, waiting for its owner. Ah, those
shoes will have to wait a long time, for at that very moment Khapun is
flying with their owner high over woods and fields, over valleys and
hills and plains, flapping his wings, and keeping well out of sight
of Christian eyes. The accursed one is glad when the night is cloudy
and dark. But when it is clear and still like to-night, with the moon
shining as bright as day, the devil’s work may very well come to naught.

“And why?” asked the miller, trembling lest the talkative Kharko should
begin poking insults at him again. But this time the servant answered
quietly enough:

“Well, you see, any Christian, no matter if he’s stupid, like you, can
call to the devil: ‘Drop it! It is mine!’ and Khapun will drop the Jew
at once. The devil will flutter his wings, and fly away with a shrill
cry like a wounded hawk, to be left without prey for a year. The Jew
will fall to the ground. It will be lucky for him if he wasn’t too high
up and if he falls into a bog or some other soft spot. If he doesn’t,
no one will profit by his fall, neither he nor the devil.”

“So that’s how it is!” said the miller, staring nervously at the sky,
in which the moon was shining with all its might. The heavens were