 the eunuch
biddeth thee." Then she got up and went away, and I paid the merchants
their monies and they all profited; but as for me, regret at the
breaking off of our intercourse was all my gain; and I slept not the
whole of that night. However, before many days passed her eunuch came
to me, and I entreated him honourably and asked him after his mistress.
"Truly she is sick with love of thee," he replied and I rejoined, "Tell
me who and what she is." Quoth he, "The Lady Zubaydah, queen consort of
Harun al-Rashid, brought her up as a rearling[FN#560] and hath advanced
her to be stewardess of the Harim, and gave her the right of going in
and out of her own sweet will. She spoke to her lady of thee and begged
her to marry her to thee; but she said, 'I will not do this, till I see
the young man; and, if he be worthy of thee, I will marry thee to him.'
So now we look for the moment to smuggle thee into the Palace and if
thou succeed in entering privily thou wilt win thy wish to wed her; but
if the affair get wind, the Lady Zubaydah will strike off thy
head.[FN#561] What sayest thou to this?" I answered, "I will go with
thee and abide the risk whereof thou speakest." Then said he, "As soon
as it is night, go to the Mosque built by the Lady Zubaydah on the
Tigris and pray the night prayers and sleep there." "With love and
gladness," cried I. So at nightfall I repaired to the Mosque, where I
prayed and passed the night. With earliest dawn, behold, came sundry
eunuchs in a skiff with a number of empty chests which they deposited
in the Mosque; then all of them went their ways but one, and looking
curiously at him, I saw he was our go between. Presently in came the
handmaiden, my mistress, walking straight up to us; and I rose to her
and embraced her while she kissed me and shed tears.[FN#562] We talked
awhile; after which she made me get into one of the chests which she
locked upon me. Presently the other eunuchs came back with a quantity
of packages and she fell to stowing them in the chests, which she
locked down, one by one, till all were shut. When all was done the
eunuchs embarked the chests in the boat and made for the Lady
Zubaydah's palace. With this, thought began to beset me and I said to
myself, "Verily thy lust and wantonness will be the death of thee; and
the question is after all shalt thou win to thy wish or not?" And I
began to weep, boxed up as I was in the box and suffering from cramp;
and I prayed Allah that He deliver me from the dangerous strait I was
in, whilst the boat gave not over going on till it reached the Palace
gate where they lifted out the chests and amongst them that in which I
was. Then they carried them in, passing through a troop of eunuchs,
guardians of the Harim and of the ladies behind the curtain, till they
came to the post of the Eunuch in Chief[FN#563] who started up from his
slumbers and shouted to the damsel "What is in those chests?" "They are
full of wares for the Lady Zubaydah!" "Open them, one by one, that I
may see what is in them." "And wherefore wouldst thou open them?" "Give
me no words and exceed not in talk! These chests must and shall be
opened." So saying, he sprang to his feet, and the first which they
brought to him to open was that wherein I was; and, when I felt his
hands upon it, my senses failed me and I bepissed myself in my funk,
the water running out of the box. Then said she to the Eunuch in Chief,
"O steward! thou wilt cause me to be killed and thyself too, for thou
hast damaged goods worth ten thousand dinars. This chest contains
coloured dresses, and four gallon flasks of Zemzem water;[FN#564] and
now one of them hath got unstoppered and the water is running out over