information, despatches from General Sir Redvers Buller, describing
the advance across the Tugela River on the 17th and 18th January,
1900, and the capture and evacuation of the Spion Kop position on the
23rd and 24th January, as well as certain minor operations between
the 19th and 24th January on the right or eastern line of advance.

2. The plan of operations is not very clearly described in the
despatches themselves, but it may be gathered from them and the
accompanying documents themselves that the original intention was
to cross the Tugela at or near Trichard’s Drift, and thence by
following the road past ‘Fair View’ and ‘Acton Homes,’ to gain
the open plain north of Spion Kop, the Boer position in front of
Potgieter’s Drift being too strong to be taken by direct attack.
The whole force, less one brigade, was placed under the orders of
Sir Charles Warren, who, the day after he had crossed the Tugela,
seems to have consulted his General and principal Staff Officers,
and to have come to the conclusion that the flanking movement
which Sir Redvers Buller had mentioned in his secret instructions
was impracticable on account of the insufficiency of supplies. He
accordingly decided to advance by the more direct road leading
north-east, and branching off from a point east of ‘Three Tree Hill.’
The selection of this road necessitated the capture and retention
of Spion Kop, but whether it would have been equally necessary to
occupy Spion Kop, had the line of advance indicated by Sir Redvers
Buller been followed, is not stated in the correspondence. As Sir
Charles Warren considered it impossible to make the wide flanking
movement which was recommended, if not actually prescribed, in his
secret instructions, he should at once have acquainted Sir Redvers
Buller with the course of action which he proposed to adopt. There
is nothing to show whether he did so or not, but it seems only fair
to Sir Charles Warren to point out that Sir Redvers Buller appears
throughout to have been aware of what was happening. On several
occasions he was present during the operations. He repeatedly gave
advice to his subordinate commander, and on the day after the
withdrawal from Spion Kop he resumed the chief command.

      {{3. In his note[9] on Sir Charles Warren’s report,
      accompanying despatch of 30th January 1900,[10] Sir
      Redvers Buller expresses a very adverse opinion on the
      manner in which Sir Charles Warren carried out the
      instructions he had received. Without a knowledge of the
      country and circumstances it is difficult to say whether
      the delay, misdirection, and want of control, of which
      Sir Redvers Buller complains, were altogether avoidable;
      but, in any case, if he considered that his orders were
      not being properly given effect to, it appears to me
      that it was his duty to intervene as soon as he had
      reason to believe that the success of the operations
      was being endangered. This, indeed, is admitted by
      Sir Redvers Buller himself, whose explanation of his
      non-interference can hardly be accepted as adequate. A
      most important enterprise was being attempted, and no
      personal considerations should have deterred the officer
      in chief command from insisting on its being conducted
      in the manner which, in his opinion, would lead to the
      attainment of the object in view, with the least possible
      loss on our side.}}

As regards the withdrawal of the troops from the Spion Kop position,
which, though occupied almost without opposition in the early
morning of the 24th January, had to be held throughout the day under
an extremely heavy fire, and the retention of which had become
essential to the relief of Ladysmith, I regret that I am unable
to concur with Sir Redvers Buller in thinking that Lieut.-Colonel
Thorneycroft exercised a wise discretion in ordering the troops to
retire. Even admitting that due preparations may not have been made
for strengthening the position during the night, reorganising the
defence, and bringing up artillery--in regard to which Sir Charles
Warren’s report does not altogether bear out Sir Redvers Buller’s
contention--admitting also that the senior officers on the summit of
the hill might have been more promptly informed of the measures taken
by Sir Charles Warren to support and reinforce them, I am of opinion
that Lieut.-Colonel Thorneycroft’s assumption of responsibility and
authority was wholly inexcusable. During the night the enemy’s fire,
if it did not cease altogether, could not have been formidable, and,
though lamp signalling was not possible at the time, owing to the
supply of oil having failed, it would not have taken more than two or
three hours at most for Lieut.-Colonel Thorneycroft to communicate
by messenger with Major-General Coke or Sir Charles Warren, and to
receive a reply. Major-General Coke appears to have left Spion Kop at
9.30 P.M. for the purpose of consulting with Sir Charles Warren, and
up to that hour the idea of a withdrawal had not been entertained.
Yet almost immediately after Major-General Coke’s departure
Lieut.-Colonel Thorneycroft issued an order, without reference to
superior authority, which upset the whole plan of operations, and
rendered unavailing the sacrifices which had already been made to
carry it into effect.

On the other hand, it is only right to state that Lieut.-Colonel
Thorneycroft appears to have behaved in a very gallant manner
throughout the day, and it was doubtless due, in a great measure,
to his exertions and example that the troops continued to hold the
summit of the hill until directed to retire.

5. The conduct of Captain Phillips, Brigade-Major of the 10th
Brigade, on the occasion in question, is deserving of high
commendation. He did his best to rectify the mistake which was
being made, but it was too late. Signalling communication was not
re-established until 2.30 A.M. on the 25th January, and by that time
the naval guns could not have reached the summit of the hill before
daybreak. Major-General Coke did not return, and Lieut.-Colonel