ssick, 29, 11, 48_, (_so called_.)

  “Sir,

  “Best salutations and wishes to the Father of mercies for your
  worthy self, yoke fellow, sister, &c. It must be so in this world’s
  sea. Sicut fluctus fluctum, sic luctus luctum sequitur. And every
  day hath his sufficiency or fulness of evil to all the children of
  the first sinful man; no persons, no places, exempted from the reach
  of the first curse. My humble desire is to the most righteous and
  only wise Judge, that the wood of Christ’s gallows (as in Moses’
  act) may be cast into all your and our bitter waters, that they be
  sweet and wholesome instructers of the fruits of sin, the sorrows of
  others abroad, (in our England’s Aceldama,) our own deservings to
  feel upon ourselves, bodies and souls, (wives and children also,)
  not by barbarians, but devils, and that eternally, sorrows
  inexpressible, inconceivable, and yet, if Christ’s religion be true,
  unavoidable, but by the blood of a Savior, &c. Sir, pardon me, this
  is not the matter. Sir, your letters I speedily despatched by a
  messenger on purpose. For a place, I know indeed of one in Plymouth
  claim, and would specify, but that your spirit being troubled,
  countermanded it again, in your postscript concerning Elderkin, whom
  I will, if God will, effectually labor with, and write the issue
  with speed. All our neighbors, the barbarians, run up and down, and
  consult; partly suspecting like dealings; partly ready to fall upon
  the Mohegans, at your word, and a world of foolish agitations, I
  could trouble you with, but I told the chiefest yesterday, that it
  is not our manner to be rash, and that you will be silent till your
  father and other ancient sachems speak first, &c. Sir, concerning
  the bags of ore, it is of Rhode-Island, where is certainly affirmed
  to be both gold and silver ore, upon trial. Mr. Coddington went to
  the Bay, with his daughter, for England, and left Captain Partridge
  in trust with all, the last week, at Newport. George Wright, alias
  Captain Wright, stabbed with a pike, Walter Lettice, at Newport, and
  is in prison; the other, if not dead, not like to live.

                    “Sir, yours ever, in all unfeigned respect, &c.
                                                      “ROGER WILLIAMS.

  “I want wax to seal, otherwise I would have expressed something,
  which I reserve till another season, if the Lord will.”

In March following, Mr. Williams again wrote to Mr. Winthrop. In this
letter, he mentioned, that he had been elected Deputy President, in
consequence of the absence of Mr. Coddington.

  “For the worshipful, his kind friend, Mr. John Winthrop, at Nameug.

                                “_Cawcawmsqussick, 1, 48 (so called.)_

  “Sir,

  “Best respects and love presented, and thanks hearty for your
  letters, former and latter, all now received. I am again importuned
  by our neighbor sachems, having heard of Wequashcook’s carrying of
  peag to Captain Mason, to pray you to inform them whether that peag
  be part of the payment; because Wequashcook and his company refuse
  to pay. They desire me also to write to the Bay about it, which I
  defer to do until their payments go, which are something delayed
  because of the death of Ninigret’s wife’s mother, which is the same
  you write of, Wequashcook’s mother, and it is now qunnantacaun, that
  is, lamentation. Sir, since I wrote to you, our four towns met by
  deputies, six out of a town. This Court last week wrote to me
  information of their choice of myself Deputy President, in the
  absence of the President, who, whether they have fixed on yourself,
  or Mr. Coddington’s faction prevail to keep his name in, now gone
  for England, I cannot yet learn, but I have excused myself for some
  reasons, and I hope they have chosen better. I wrote to them about
  an act of oblivion, which, blessed be the God of peace, they have
  past, and have appointed a Court of election in the third month, at
  Warwick. Sir, I am exceeding glad of your beginnings at Pawcatuck. I
  pray fail not to inquire whether there, or from Mohegan or
  Connecticut, you can help me to one hundred bushels of Indian corn.
  To your dear yokefellow and sister respective salutation. The sun of
  righteousness graciously shine on you. I desire, unfeignedly, to be
  your worship’s unfeigned in love,

                                                                “R. W.

  “The sachems pray you to tell them whether their peag will be sold
  at under rates, as Pumhommin, coming two days since from the Bay,
  informs them, viz. that they must pay great black at thirteen to the