the American-Irish
  Historical Society. Bernard C. Steiner, Librarian.”

  From Clark University, Worcester, Mass.: “Please accept the thanks
  of the University for your gift of the Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, Volume V, the receipt of which is hereby
  acknowledged. Louis N. Wilson, Librarian.”

  From the People’s Library, Newport, R. I.: “On behalf of the
  People’s Library of Newport, I beg to thank you for your gift of
  Volume V of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society.
  Very truly yours, J. E. Gardner, Librarian.”

  From the Library of Leland Stanford Junior University, California:
  “The library acknowledges, with thanks, the receipt of your gift of
  the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume V.
  Respectfully yours, Melvin G. Dodge, Librarian.”

  From the Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston: “This society
  wishes to acknowledge the receipt of a copy of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume V, for which it returns
  grateful thanks. Samuel A. Green, Librarian.”

  From the Providence (R. I.) Public Library: “The trustees of the
  Providence Public Library have received from the American-Irish
  Historical Society, Volume V of the Journal, for which they return
  their thanks. William E. Foster, Librarian.”

  From the Rev. Austin Dowling, Providence, R. I.: “I have received
  Volume V of the Journal of the American Irish Historical Society—as
  usual, extremely interesting and valuable. With best wishes to
  yourself and congratulations on your splendid work.”

  From the Public Library, Brookline, Mass.: “In behalf of the
  trustees I return a grateful acknowledgment of the work mentioned
  below, a gift to the library. Louisa M. Hooper, Librarian. (Journal
  of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume V.)”

  From the University of Maine: “In behalf of the university, it gives
  me pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of the following book which
  has been added to the library through your courtesy: Journal, Vol.
  5. Yours truly, Ralph K. Jones, Librarian.”

  From the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.: “I have the pleasure
  of acknowledging the receipt of the following gift to this library:
  The Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume V. Very
  respectfully, A. N. Brown, Professor, Librarian.”

  From Cornell University: “I beg to acknowledge with best thanks the
  receipt of your gift to the library: The Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, by Thomas Hamilton Murray, Volume
  V. Very truly yours, Geo. Wm. Harris, Librarian.”

  From Miss Helen Prendergast, Mayville, Chautauqua County, N. Y.: “I
  am desirous of extending my sincere thanks for a copy of Volume V of
  the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society. I have read
  most of it and find it very interesting and instructive.”

  From the librarian of the George Washington University, Washington,
  D. C.: “On behalf of the George Washington University, I wish to
  acknowledge gratefully the receipt of a copy of the Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society for 1905, Volume V.”

  From the Reynolds Library, Rochester, N. Y.: “The trustees of the
  Reynolds Library acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your gift,
  named below. Alfred S. Collins, Librarian. (Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume V. 8vo. Boston, 1905.)”

  From Tufts College, Medford, Mass.: “The trustees of Tufts College
  have received from Mr. Thomas Hamilton Murray, secretary, the
  following gift to the library: Journal of the American-Irish
  Historical Society, Volume V, for which they return thanks. H. L.
  Mellen, Librarian.”

  From Trinity College, Washington, D. C.: “We have received a copy of
  the fifth volume of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical
  Society and we thank you for your courtesy in sending it to the
  library. It seems even more interesting and valuable than its
  predecessors.”

  From the City Library, Springfield, Mass.: “The City Library
  gratefully acknowledges the receipt of the article—noted below—which
  you have kindly given to it. Yours very truly, Hiller C. Wellman,
  Librarian. (The Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  Volume V.)”

  From Mr. John Lavelle, Cleveland, Ohio: “I wish to acknowledge the
  receipt of the annual Journal, and other literature, of the Society.
  I know of nothing better calculated to promote the interests and to
  elevate our race than the labors of the A. I. H. S. Keep up the good
  work.”

  From Dartmouth College: “I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt
  of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume V,
  1905, and am instructed to tender to you the thanks of the Trustees
  of this College for the same. Very respectfully, M. D. Bisbee,
  Librarian.”

  From Timothy M. Ryan, M. D., Torrington, Conn.: “I have received
  Volume V of the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society,
  and beg to return thanks. I am very anxious to secure the four
  previous volumes, but do not know whether or not it is possible to
  obtain them.”

  From the Public Library, Detroit, Mich.: “The library has received
  from you the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, a
  gift to the library, for which, on behalf of the board of
  commissioners, I beg to return grateful acknowledgment and thanks.
  Henry M. Utley, Librarian.”

  From the Public Library, Los Angeles, Cal.: “The Los Angeles Public
  Library presents its acknowledgments and thanks to the
  American-Irish Historical Society for the gift of the Journal of the
  Society, Volume V. By order of the board of directors. Chas. F.
  Lummis, Librarian.”

  From the Oswego (N. Y.) City Library: “The trustees of the Oswego
  City Library desire to thank the American-Irish Historical Society
  for the Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, which has
  been received and placed in the library. Yours respectfully, Robert
  S. Kelsey, Librarian.”

  From the Library of the University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.:
  “On behalf of the University of Washington, I acknowledge with best
  thanks the receipt of the undermentioned gift. Journal of the
  American-Irish Historical Society, Volume V. Very respectfully, H.
  C. Coffman, Librarian.”

  From the Redwood Library, Newport, R. I.: “The directors of the
  Redwood Library take pleasure in acknowledging the receipt of the
  Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society, Volume V,
  presented by you to the library, for which they return their sincere
  thanks. Richard Bliss, Librarian.”

  From the Columbia University Library in the City of New York: “The
  trustees acknowledge with thanks the receipt of the Journal, Volume
  V, from the American-Irish Historical Society, which has been placed
  to the credit of that institution, on our exchange account. James H.
  Canfield, Librarian.”

  From Mr. Charles W. Sloane, New York City: “Volume V of the Journal
  of the American-Irish Historical Society has reached me this
  morning. Of course I have had an opportunity to only glance at the
  contents, but I have looked far enough into the volume to feel sure
  that it is most interesting.”