
“What’s that you’re saying?” he cried. “Do you think I have hired
myself out to you as a cart to take you home from church, you hound?
You must be joking!”

“Why should I be joking?” asked the wily Yankel, pretending to have
no idea what the Devil wanted with him. “I am very grateful indeed to
you for having brought me so far, and I can now go on quite well by
myself. It is only a short way. I wouldn’t think of troubling you any
more.”

The devil quivered with rage. He ran round and round on the same spot
like a chicken with its head off, and knocked Yankel down with his
wing. He was panting like a blacksmith’s bellows.

“Well, I never!” the miller thought. “I don’t care if it is sin to
admire a devil, I do admire this one; he would never let his lawful
property slip between his fingers, one can see that!”

Yankel sat up and began to yell with all his might. Even the devil
could do nothing to stop him. Every one knows that as long as a Jew has
a breath in his body nothing will make him hold his tongue.

“What does it matter, though?” thought the miller, looking round at his
empty mill. “My man is either amusing himself with the girls or else
lying drunk under a hedge.”

A sleepy frog in the mud answered Yankel’s pitiful screams with a
croak, and a bittern, that foul bird of the night, boomed twice as if
from an empty barrel: boo-oo, boo-oo! The moon had finally sunk behind
the wood, assured that the Jew was dead and done for; darkness had
fallen upon the mill, the dam, and the river, and a white mist had
gathered over the pond.

The devil carelessly shook his wings, and lay down again, saying with a
laugh:

“Scream as loud as you like! The mill is deserted.”

“How do you know it’s deserted?” snapped the Jew, and he began to
scream for the miller.

“Mr. Miller! Oi, Mr. Miller! Golden, silver, diamond Mr. Miller!
Please, please come here for one little tiny second and say three
words, three little tiny words! I’ll make you a present of half the
debt you owe me if you’ll only come!”

“You’ll make me a present of the whole debt!” said a voice in the
miller’s heart.

The Jew stopped screaming, his head sank forward on his breast, and he
burst into a fit of bitter weeping.

Again some time passed. The moon had now set, and its last rays had
died out of the sky. Everything in heaven and on earth seemed wrapped
in the deepest slumber; not a sound could be heard except the Jew’s low
weeping and his exclamations of:

“Oh, my Sarah! Oh, my poor children! My poor little children!”

The devil felt a little rested, and sat up. Although it was dark,
the miller could distinctly see a pair of horns like a young calf’s
outlined against the white mist that hung over the pond.