
                                                “GREGORY DEXTER,
                                                        _Town Clerk_.”

The town of Providence, at the instance of Mr. Williams, and the other
towns, as we may presume, by his influence, appointed commissioners, who
met on the 31st of August, and re-established the government on its old
foundations.[288] They appointed a general election, to be held at
Warwick, on the 12th of September, at which Mr. Williams was chosen
President of the colony, and, together with Mr. Gregory Dexter, was
requested to “draw forth and send letters of humble thanksgiving to his
Highness, the Lord Protector, and Sir Henry Vane, Mr. Holland, and Mr.
John Clarke, in the name of the colony; and Mr. Williams is desired to
subscribe them, by virtue of his office.”

By the wisdom, and the firm yet healing gentleness of Mr. Williams, was
the colony thus re-united, after a disorderly interval of several years.
The little bark was rescued from the rocks which threatened her
destruction, and once more launched forth, her faithful pilot at the
helm, and her banner, displaying her chosen motto “Hope,” floating again
upon the breeze.[289]

The following letter to the government of Massachusetts, alludes to some
disturbances with the Indians, which occurred about this time. Ninigret,
the Niantick sachem, had made war with the Indians of Long Island,[290]
and was supposed to be in alliance with the Dutch at New-York. The
commissioners of the united colonies sent a considerable force against
Ninigret, under the command of Major Willard, of Massachusetts, but they
returned without success, the sachem and his warriors having taken
refuge in a swamp. The real cause, perhaps, why the war was not
vigorously waged, was, that Massachusetts was opposed to hostilities,
and with a wisdom and humanity which honored her rulers, prevented at
this time, as she had done on a former occasion, a general war with the
natives.[291] We may hope, that the admirable letter of Mr. Williams had
some effect in producing this pacific temper:

                                 “_Providence, 5, 8, 54, (so called.)_

  “Much honored Sirs,

  “I truly wish you peace, and pray your gentle acceptance of a word,
  I hope not unreasonable.

  “We have in these parts a sound of your meditations of war against
  these natives, amongst whom we dwell. I consider that war is one of
  those three great, sore plagues, with which it pleaseth God to
  affect the sons of men. I consider, also, that I refused, lately,
  many offers in my native country, out of a sincere desire to seek
  the good and peace of this.

  “I remember, that upon the express advice of your ever honored Mr.
  Winthrop, deceased,[292] I first adventured to begin a plantation
  among the thickest of these barbarians.

  “That in the Pequod wars, it pleased your honored government to
  employ me in the hazardous and weighty service of negotiating a
  league between yourselves and the Narragansets, when the Pequod
  messengers, who sought the Narragansets’ league against the English,
  had almost ended that my work and life together.

  “That at the subscribing of that solemn league, which, by the mercy
  of the Lord, I had procured with the Narragansets, your government
  was pleased to send unto me the copy of it, subscribed by all hands
  there, which yet I keep as a monument and a testimony of peace and
  faithfulness between you both.

  “That, since that time, it hath pleased the Lord so to order it,
  that I have been more or less interested and used in all your great
  transactions of war or peace, between the English and the natives,
  and have not spared purse, nor pains, nor hazards, (very many
  times,) that the whole land, English and natives, might sleep in
  peace securely.

  “That in my last negotiations in England, with the Parliament,
  Council of State, and his Highness,[293] I have been forced to be
  known so much, that if I should be silent, I should not only betray
  mine own peace and yours, but also should be false to their
  honorable and princely names, whose loves and affections, as well as
  their supreme authority, are not a little concerned in the peace or
  war of this country.

  “At my last departure for England, I was importuned by the
  Narraganset sachems, and especially by Ninigret, to present their
  petition to the high sachems of England, that they might not be
  forced from their religion, and, for not changing their religion, be
  invaded by war; for they said they were daily visited with
  threatenings by Indians that came from about the Massachusetts, that
  if they would not pray, they should be destroyed by war. With this
  their petition I acquainted, in private discourses, divers of the
  chief of our nation, and especially his Highness, who, in many
  discourses I had with him, never expressed the least tittle of
  displeasure, as hath been here reported, but, in the midst of
  disputes, ever expressed a high spirit of love and gentleness, and
  was often pleased to please himself with very many questions, and my
  answers, about the Indian affairs of this country; and, after all
  hearing of yourself and us, it hath pleased his Highness and his
  Council to grant, amongst other favors to this colony, some
  expressly concerning the very Indians, the native inhabitants of
  this jurisdiction.

  “I, therefore, humbly offer to your prudent and impartial view,
  first, these two considerable terms, it pleased the Lord to use to
  all that profess his name (Rom. 12: 18,) if it be possible, and all
  men.

  “I never was against the righteous use of the civil sword of men or
  nations, but yet since all men of conscience or prudence ply to
  windward, to maintain their wars to be defensive, (as did both King
  and Scotch, and English, and Irish too, in the late wars,) I humbly
  pray your consideration, whether it be not only possible, but very
  easy, to live and die in peace with all the natives of this country.