
“Hallo, get up, Philip!” he suddenly thought to himself, and he jumped
out of bed in the darkness as if some one had hit him with an axe. “I
forgot that that little cloud was the same one the Jew’s servant and I
saw flying toward the city, and wondered as we watched it how it could
move without wind. There isn’t much wind now, and what there is isn’t
coming from that quarter. Wait a minute, Philip, there’s something
queer about this!”

The miller was very sleepy, but, nevertheless, he went out barefoot on
to the dam, and stood in the middle of it scratching his chest and back
(the mill was not free from fleas). A light breeze was blowing from
the mill-pond behind him, and yet there was that little cloud flying
directly in his face. Only it now no longer looked feathery-light,
neither did it fly as swiftly and freely as before. It seemed to be
swaying a little and falling to earth like a wounded bird. As it flew
across the moon the miller at last saw very clearly what it was, for
against that bright orb were silhouetted a pair of dark, flapping
wings, and below them was hanging a human form with a long, quivering
beard.

“Aha, here’s a pretty to do!” thought the miller. “He’s carrying one of
them away. What shall I do? If I shout to him: drop it, it is mine! the
poor Jew may break his neck or fall into the pond. He’s pretty high up.”

But he soon saw that the situation was changing. The devil was circling
over the mill with his burden, and beginning to sink to the ground.

“He was greedy and chose a morsel too big for him,” the miller said to
himself. “Now I can rescue the Jew; he’s a living soul, after all, and
isn’t to be compared to a devil. Come then, God bless me, let me shout
my loudest!”

But instead of shouting he strangely enough ran away from the dam as
fast as his legs could carry him, and hid under the sycamores that
stood like nixies at the edge of the mill-pond, bathing their green
branches in its dark water. The darkness was as deep under them as in
a barrel, and the miller felt sure that no one could see him. To tell
the honest truth, his teeth were chattering madly and his hands and
feet were trembling as the shafts trembled when his mill was running.
Nevertheless, he couldn’t resist the temptation of peeping out to see
what would happen next.

First the devil fell almost to earth with his prey, and then rose again
above the tree-tops, but it was plain to see that his load was too
heavy for him. Twice he actually touched the water, so that the ripples
spread in circles from the Jew’s feet, but each time he flapped his
wings, and rose again with his prey as a sea-gull rises from the water
with a heavy fish. At last, after circling about two or three times,
the devil fell heavily on to the dam, and lay as if dead, with the
fainting Jew inanimate at his side.

And I must tell you--I had nearly forgotten it--that our friend the
miller had long ago seen whom the Jewish Khapun had brought from the
city. And when he recognised him--need I conceal it when he has
confessed it himself?--he grew merry at heart and thought:

“Thank God, it is no other than our inn-keeper from Novokamensk! What
happens next is none of my business, because I don’t think I ought to
interfere in other people’s affairs. When two dogs are fighting there’s
no reason a third should jump in. Again I say, let sleeping dogs lie.
What if I hadn’t have happened to be here? I’m not the Jew’s guardian.”

And he also thought:

“Aha, Philipko, now your time has come in Novokamensk!”


IV

Both the unfortunate Jew and the devil lay motionless on the dam for
a long time. The moon had begun to redden, and was hanging above the
tree-tops as if only waiting to see what the end would be before
setting. A hoarse cock crowed in the village, and a dog yelped twice.