

          The ship arrives—Captain’s attempt to form a band—Sail
    again—Attacked by rheumatic fever and invalided ashore—Ordered to
         join H.M.S. _Tonnant_—Proceed to Mediterranean—At Oran:
                           experiences ashore.


The ship anchored at Cawsand Bay four days afterwards, when we joined her,
leaving the prizes in charge of the agent. I found her with the yellow
flag flying at the masthead. She had been put in quarantine on her
arrival, which we paid off with the foretop-sail, as we sailed the day
after for a six weeks’ cruise in the chops of the Channel. At the end of
that period we returned to our anchorage with another French brig laden
with Colonial produce. Our gallant and would-be musical captain consulted
us all respecting harmonious sounds, but, alas! we were weighed in the
musical balance and found wanting. This, however, did not discourage him.
Nine of the crew came forward with three of the marines, offering
themselves as candidates for the band. The captain, after having consulted
one of the sergeants of marines, who played the hautboy, whether anything
might be made of the men who had come forward as musicians, it was
determined _nem. con._ that a pease-barrel should be manufactured into a
big drum, that two ramrods should be metamorphosed into triangles, that
the two bassoons and the hautboy taken in the French frigate should be
brought into action without loss of time, that the marine and ship’s
fifer, with the marine drummer, should be drilled with the others, under
the direction of the sergeant, in the captain’s cabin twice a day, and a
horrible confusion of unmusical sounds they made for more than six weeks.
The skipper was in his glory, and everybody else amazed. Some of my
messmates prayed for them heartily, particularly the first lieutenant, who
thought the captain musically mad. The mids declared they never would be
respectable enough to be called a band, but would be bad enough to be
called a banditti, as they looked more like brigands than musicians.

We had nearly completed our water and stores, when I was ordered to the
dockyard with the launch for the remainder and two anchor-stocks. It was
blowing fresh, and in consequence I desired the leaves of the anchor-stock
to be triced up under the oars outside the boat, that in case of shipping
a sea we might be able, if necessary, to cut them away. The last leaf was
lowered down to the boat, when I felt a touch on my shoulder. I turned
quickly round, when my nose, which is not very short, came in rude contact
with a cocked hat, which it nearly knocked off the head of the wearer. It
was the admiral, who was in stature a King John’s man, four feet nothing.
I immediately pulled off my hat and apologised. “What are you doing, sir,”
said he to me, “with these anchor-stocks?” “Tricing them up outside the
boat, sir,” replied I. “Why do you not boat them?” I explained my reasons
for not doing so. After a short pause, he said, “You are perfectly right.