 Farm: 29th January, 1900.

Sir,--I have the honour to make the following report on the
operations on the north side of the Tugela, west of Spion Kop, from
the 17th to the 27th of January, 1900:--

1. On the 8th January field orders were published constituting the
10th Brigade of the 5th Division a Corps Brigade, and placing the
4th Brigade in the 5th Division. The 5th Division thus constituted
marched from Frere on the 10th instant, arriving at Springfield on
the 12th instant.

2. On the 15th January I received your secret instructions to command
a force to proceed across the Tugela, near Trichardt’s Drift, to the
west of Spion Kop, recommending me to proceed forward refusing my
right (namely, Spion Kop), and bringing my left forward to gain the
open plain north of Spion Kop. This move was to commence as soon as
supplies were all in, and the 10th Brigade (except two companies)
removed from Springfield Bridge to Spearman’s Hill.

3. I was provided with 4 days’ rations, with which I was to cross
the Tugela, fight my way round to north of Spion Kop, and join your
column opposite Potgieter’s.

4. On the 15th January I made the arrangements for getting supplies,
and moved the 10th Brigade on the following day; and on the evening
of the 16th January I left Springfield with a force under my
command, which amounted to an Army Corps (less one brigade), and by a
night march arrived at Trichardt’s Drift, and took possession of the
hills on the south side of the Tugela.

5. On the 17th January I threw pontoon bridges across the Tugela,
passed the infantry across by ponts, and captured the hills
immediately commanding the drift on the north side with two brigades
commanded by Generals Woodgate and Hart. The Commander-in-Chief was
present during part of the day, and gave some verbal directions to
General Woodgate.

The Mounted Brigade passed over principally by the drift, and went
over the country as far as Acton Homes, and on the following day
(18th) had a successful action with a small party of Boers, bringing
in 31 prisoners.

During the night of the 17th, and day of the 18th, the whole of the
wagons belonging to the force were brought across the Tugela, and the
artillery were in position outside of Wright’s Farm.

6. On the 19th two brigades advanced, occupying the slopes of the
adjoining hills on the right, and the wagons were successfully
brought to Venter’s Spruit.

In the evening, after having examined the possible roads by which
we could proceed, I assembled the General Officers and the Staff,