 lot in disorder down
the hill at any moment. I said it was too dangerous a situation to be
prolonged, and that he must either attack or I should withdraw his
force. I advocated, as I had previously done, an advance from his
left. He said that he had the night before ordered General Coke to
assault Spion Kop, but the latter had objected to undertaking a night
attack on a position the road to which he had not reconnoitred, and
added that he intended to assault Spion Kop that night.

3. I suggested that as General Coke was still lame from the effects
of a lately broken leg, General Woodgate, who had two sound legs, was
better adapted for mountain climbing.

4. As no heliograph could, on account of the fire, be kept on the
east side of Spion Kop, messages for Sir C. Warren were received by
our signallers at Spearman, and telegraphed to Sir C. Warren; thus I
saw them before he did, as I was at the signal station. The telegram
Sir C. Warren quotes did not give me confidence in its sender, and,
at the moment, I could see that our men on the top had given way, and
that efforts were being made to rally them. I telegraphed to Sir C.
Warren: ‘Unless you put some really good hard-fighting man in command
on the top you will lose the hill. I suggest Thorneycroft.’

        {{5. This is a mistake. _See_ =A= in Sir C. Warren’s
      report. Colonel àCourt was sent down by General Woodgate
      almost as soon as he gained the summit.}}

6. I have not thought it necessary to order any investigation. If at
sundown the defence of the summit had been taken regularly in hand,
entrenchments laid out, gun emplacements prepared, the dead removed,
the wounded collected, and, in fact, the whole place brought under
regular military command, and careful arrangements made for the
supply of water and food to the scattered fighting line, the hills
would have been held, I am sure.

7. But no arrangements were made. General Coke appears to have been
ordered away just as he would have been useful, and no one succeeded
him; those on the top were ignorant of the fact that guns were coming
up, and generally there was a want of organisation and system that
acted most unfavourably on the defence.

It is admitted by all that Colonel Thorneycroft acted with the
greatest gallantry throughout the day, and really saved the
situation. Preparations for the second day’s defence should have been
organised during the day, and have been commenced at nightfall.

As this was not done, I think Colonel Thorneycroft exercised a wise