other, "Stretch me out thy hand." So my brother put out his hand
thinking that he would give him something; but he took it and, drawing
him into the house, carried him up from stair to stair till they
reached the terrace on the house top, my brother thinking the while
that he would surely give him something of food or money. Then he asked
my brother, "What dost thou want, O blind man?" and he answered,
"Something for the Almighty's sake." "Allah open for thee some other
door!" "O thou! why not say so when I was below stairs?" "O cadger, why
not answer me when I first called to thee?" "And what meanest thou to
do for me now?" "There is nothing in the house to give thee." "Then
take me down the stair." "The path is before thee." So my brother rose
and made his way downstairs, till he came within twenty steps of the
door, when his foot slipped and he rolled to the bottom and broke his
head. Then he went out, unknowing whither to turn, and presently fell
in with two other blind men, companions of his, who said to him, "What
didst thou gain to day?" He told them what had befallen him and added,
"O my brothers, I wish to take some of the money in my hands and
provide myself with it." Now the master of the house had followed him
and was listening to what they said; but neither my brother nor his
comrades knew of this. So my brother went to his lodging and sat down
to await his companions, and the house owner entered after him without
being perceived. When the other blind men arrived, my brother said to
them, "Bolt the door and search the house lest any stranger have
followed us." The man, hearing this, caught hold of a cord that hung
from the ceiling and clung to it, whilst they went round about the
house and searched but found no one. So they came back, and, sitting
beside my brother, brought out their money which they counted and lo!
it was twelve thousand dirhams. Each took what he wanted and they
buried the rest in a corner of the room. Then they set on food and sat
down, to eat. Presently my brother, hearing a strange pair of jaws
munching by his side,[FN#651] said to his friends, "There is a stranger
amongst us;" and, putting forth his hand, caught hold of that of the
house master. Thereupon all fell on him and beat him;[FN#652] and when
tired of belabouring him they shouted, "O ye Moslems! a thief is come
in to us, seeking to take our money!" A crowd gathered around them,
whereupon the intruder hung on to them; and complained with them as
they complained, and, shutting his eyes like them, so that none might
doubt his blindness, cried out, "O Moslems, I take refuge with Allah
and the Governor, for I have a matter to make known to him!" Suddenly
up came the watch and, laying hands on the whole lot (my brother being
amongst them), drove them[FN#653] to the Governor's who set them before
him and asked, "What news with you?" Quoth the intruder, "Look and find
out for thyself, not a word shall be wrung from us save by torture, so
begin by beating me and after me beat this man our leader."[FN#654] And
he pointed to my brother. So they threw the man at full length and gave
him four hundred sticks on his backside. The beating pained him,
whereupon he opened one eye and, as they redoubled their blows, he
opened the other eye. When the Governor saw this he said to him, "What
have we here, O accursed?"; whereto he replied, "Give me the seal-ring
of pardon! We four have shammed blind, and we impose upon people that
we may enter houses and look upon the unveiled faces of the women and
contrive for their corruption. In this way we have gotten great gain
and our store amounts to twelve thousand dirhams. Said I to my company,
'Give me my share, three thousand;' but they rose and beat me and took
away my money, and I seek refuge with Allah and with thee; better thou
have my share than they. So, if thou wouldst know the truth of my
words, beat one and every of the others more than thou hast beaten me,
and he will surely open his eyes." The Governor gave orders for the
question to begin with my brother, and they bound him to the whipping
post,[FN#655] and the Governor said, "O scum of the earth, do ye abuse
the gracious gifts of Allah and make as if ye were blind!" "Allah!
Allah!" cried my brother, "by Allah, there is none among us who can
see." Then they beat him till he swooned away and the Governor cried,
"Leave him till he come to and then beat him again." After this he
caused each of the companions to receive more than three hundred
sticks, whilst the sham Abraham kept saying to them "Open your eyes or
you will be beaten afresh." At last the man said to the Governor,
"Dispatch some one with me to bring thee the money; for these fellows
will not open their eyes, lest they incur disgrace before the folk." So
the Governor sent to fetch the money and gave the man his pretended
share, three thousand dirhams; and, keeping the rest for himself,
banished the three blind men from the city. But I, O Commander of the
Faithful, went out and overtaking my brother questioned him of his
case; whereupon he told me of what I have told thee; so I brought him
secretly into the city, and appointed him (in the strictest privacy) an
allowance for meat and drink! The Caliph laughed at my story and said,
"Give him a gift and let him go;" but I said, "By Allah! I will take
naught till I have made known to the Commander of the Faithful what
came to pass with the rest of my brothers; for truly I am a man of few
words and spare of speech." Then the Caliph gave ear to




The Barber’s Tale of his Fourth Brother.


Now as for my fourth brother, O Commander of the Faithful, Al-Kuz
al-aswáni, or the long necked Gugglet hight, from his brimming over
with words, the same who was blind of one eye, he became a butcher in
Baghdad and he sold flesh and fattened rams; and great men and rich
bought their meat of him, so that he amassed much wealth and got him
cattle and houses. He fared thus a long while, till one day, as he was
sitting in his shop, there came up an old man and long o' the beard,
who laid down some silver and said, "Give me meat for this." He gave
him his money s worth of flesh and the oldster went his ways. My
brother examined the Shaykh's silver, and, seeing that the dirhams were
white and bright, he set them in a place apart. The greybeard continued
to return to the shop regularly for five months, and my brother ceased
not to lay up all the coin he received from him in its own box. At last
he thought to take out the money to buy sheep; so he opened the box and
found in it nothing, save bits of white paper cut round to look like
coin;[FN#656] so he buffeted his face and cried aloud till the folk
gathered about him, whereupon he told them his tale which made them
marvel exceedingly. Then he rose as was his wont, and slaughtering a
ram hung it up inside his shop; after which he cut off some of the
flesh, and hanging it outside kept saying to himself, "O Allah, would
the ill omened old fellow but come!" And an hour had not passed before
the Shaykh came with his silver in hand; where upon my brother rose and
caught hold of him calling out, "Come aid me, O Moslems, and learn my
story with this villain!" When the old man heard this, he quietly said
to him, "Which will be the better for thee, to let go of me or to be
disgraced by me amidst the folk?" "In what wilt thou disgrace me?" "In
that thou sellest man's flesh for mutton!" "Thou liest, thou accursed!"
"Nay, he is the accursed who hath a man hanging up by way of meat in
his shop. If the matter be as thou sayest, I give thee lawful leave to
take my money and my life." Then the old man cried out aloud, "Ho, ye
people! if you would prove the truth of my words, enter this man's
shop." The folk rushed in and found that the ram was become a dead
man[FN#657] hung up for sale. So they set upon my brother crying out,
"O Infidel! O villain!"; and his best friends fell to cuffing and
kicking him and kept saying, "Dost thou make us eat flesh of the sons
of Adam?" Furthermore, the old man struck him on the eye and put it
out. Then they carried the carcass, with the throat cut, before the
Chief of the city watch, to whom the old man said, "O Emir, this fellow
butchers men and sells their flesh for mutton and we have brought him
to thee; so arise and execute the judgments of Allah (to whom be honour
and glory!)." My brother would have defended himself, but the Chief
refused to hear him and sentenced him to receive five hundred sticks
and to forfeit the whole of his property. And, indeed, had it not been
for that same property which he expended in bribes, they would have
surely slain him. Then the Chief banished him from Baghdad; and my
brother fared forth at a venture, till he came to a great town, where
he thought it best to set up as a cobbler; so he opened a shop and sat
there doing what he could for his livelihood. One day, as he went forth
on his business, he heard the distant tramp of horses and, asking the
cause, was told that the King was going out to hunt and course; so my
brother stopped to look at the fine suite. It so fortuned that the
King's eye met my brother's; whereupon the King hung down his head and
said, "I seek refuge with Allah from the evil of this day!";[FN#658]
and turned the reins of his steed and returned home with all his
retinue. Then he gave orders to his guards, who seized my brother and
beat him with a beating so painful that he was well nigh dead; and my
brother knew not what could be the cause of his maltreatment, after
which he returned to his place in sorriest plight. Soon afterwards he
went to one of the King's household and related what had happened to
him; and the man laughed till he fell upon his back and cried, "O
brother mine, know that the King cannot bear to look at a monocular,
especially if he be blind of the right eye, in which case he doth not
let him go without killing him." When my brother heard this, he
resolved to fly from that city; so he went forth from it to another
wherein none knew him and there he abode a long while. One day, being
full of sorrowful thought for what had befallen him, he sallied out to
solace himself; and, as he was walking along, he heard the distant
tramp of horses behind him and said, "The judgement of Allah is upon
me!" and looked about for a hiding place but found none. At last he saw
a closed door which he pushed hard: it yielded. and he entered a long
gallery in which he took refuge, but hardly had he done so, when two
men set upon him crying out, "Allah be thanked for having delivered
thee into our hands, O enemy of God! These three nights thou hast
robbed us of our rest and sleep, and verily thou hast made us taste of
the death cup." My brother asked, "O folk, what ails you?"; and they
answered, "Thou givest us the change and goest about to disgrace us and
plannest some plot to cut the throat of the house master! Is it not
enough that thou hast brought him to beggary, thou and thy fellows? But
now give us up the knife wherewith thou threatenest us every night."
Then they searched him and found in his waist belt the knife used for
his shoe leather; and he said, "O people, have the fear of Allah before
your eyes and maltreat me not, for know that my story is a right
strange!" "And what is thy story?" said they: so he told them what had
befallen him, hoping they would let him go; however they paid no heed
to what he said and, instead of showing some regard, beat him
grievously and tore off his clothes: then, finding on his sides the
scars of beating with rods, they said, "O accursed! these marks are the
manifest signs of thy guilt!" They carried him before the Governor,
whilst he said to himself, "I am now punished for my sins and none can
deliver me save Allah Almighty!" The Governor addressing my brother
asked him, "O villain, what led thee to enter their house with
intention to murther?"; and my brother answered, "I conjure thee by
Allah, O Emir, hear my words and be not hasty in condemning me!" But
the Governor cried, "Shall we listen to the words of a robber who hath
beggared these people, and who beareth on his back the scar of his
stripes?" adding, "They surely had not done this to thee, save for some
great crime." So he sentenced him to receive an hundred cuts with the
scourge, after which they set him on a camel and paraded him about the
city, proclaiming, "This is the requital and only too little to requite
him who breaketh into people's houses." Then they thrust him out of the
city, and my brother wandered at random, till I heard what had befallen
him; and, going in search of him, questioned him of his case; so he
acquainted me with his story and all his mischances, and I carried him
secretly to the city where I made him an allowance for his meat and
drink. Then the Caliph gave ear to




The Barber’s Tale of his Fifth Brother.


My fifth brother, Al-Nashshár,[FN#659] the Babbler, the same who was
cropped of both ears, O Commander of the Faithful, was an asker wont to
beg of folk by night and live on their alms by day. Now when our
father, who was an old man well stricken in years sickened and died, he
left us seven hundred dirhams whereof each son took his hundred; but,
as my fifth brother received his portion, he was perplexed and knew not
what to do with it. While in this uncertainty he bethought him to lay
it out on glass ware of all sorts and turn an honest penny on its
price. So he bought an hundred dirhams worth of verroterie and, putting
it into a big tray, sat down to sell it on a bench at the foot of a
wall against which he leant back. As he sat with the tray before him he
fell to musing and said to himself, "Know, O my good Self, that the
head of my wealth, my principal invested in this glass ware, is an
hundred dirhams. I will assuredly sell it for two hundred with which I