  whatever they desired of me as to goods or gifts or use of my boats
  or pinnace, and the travels of my own person, day and night, which,
  though men know not, nor care to know, yet the all-seeing Eye hath
  seen it, and his all-powerful hand hath helped me. Blessed be his
  holy name to eternity.

ROGER WILLIAMS.”

  “September 28th, 1704. I then, being at the house of Mr. Nathaniel
  Coddington, there being presented with this written paper, which I
  attest, upon oath, to be my father’s own hand writing.

JOSEPH WILLIAMS, _Assistant_.”

  “February 11th, 1705. True copy of the original, placed to record,
  and examined per me.

                                          “WESTON CLARKE, _Recorder_.”


                            NOTE D. p. 180.

[From Hazard’s State Papers, vol. i.]

Report of Arbitrators at Providence, containing proposals for a form of
government:

                           _“Providence, the 27th of the 5th month,_ }
                                   _in the year (so called) 1640._   }

  “We, Robert Coles, Chad Browne, William Harris, and John Warren,
  being freely chosen by the consent of our loving friends and
  neighbors, the inhabitants of this town of Providence, having many
  differences amongst us, they being freely willing, and also bound
  themselves to stand to our arbitration, in all differences amongst
  us, to rest contented in our determination, being so betrusted, we
  have seriously and carefully endeavored to weigh and consider all
  these differences, being desirous to bring to unity and peace,
  although our abilities are far short in the due examination of such
  weighty things, yet so far as we conceive in laying all things
  together, we have gone the fairest and the equallest way to produce
  our peace.

  “I. Agreed. We have, with one consent, agreed, that in the parting
  those particular proprieties which some of our friends and neighbors
  have in Pawtuxet from the general common of our town of Providence,
  to run upon a straight line upon a fresh spring, being in the gully
  at the head of that cove, running by that point of land called
  Sassafras, unto the town of Mashapaug, to an oak tree standing near
  unto the corn-field, being at this time the nearest corn-field unto
  Pawtuxet, the oak tree having four marks with an axe, till some
  other landmark be set for a certain bound. Also we agree, that if
  any meadow ground lying and joining to that meadow that borders upon
  the river of Pawtuxet, come within the aforesaid line, which will
  not come within a straight line from long cove to the marked tree,
  then for that meadow to belong to Pawtuxet, and so beyond the town
  of Mashapaug from the oak tree between the two fresh rivers Pawtuxet
  and Wanasquatucket, of an even distance.

  “II. Agreed. We have with one consent agreed that for the disposing
  of those lands that shall be disposed, belonging to this town of
  Providence, to be in the whole inhabitants by the choice of five men
  for general disposal, to be betrusted with disposal of lands and
  also of the town’s stock, and all general things, and not to receive
  in any in six days as townsmen, but first to give the inhabitants
  notice to consider if any have just cause to show against the
  receiving of him, as you can apprehend, and to receive none but such
  as subscribe to this our determination. Also we agree, that if any
  of our neighbors do apprehend himself wronged by these or any of
  these five disposers, that at the general town meeting he may have a
  trial.

  “Also, we agree for the town to choose, beside the other five men,
  one or more to keep record of all things belonging to the town and
  lying in common.

  “We agree, as formerly hath been the liberties of the town, so still
  to hold forth liberty of conscience.

  “III. Agreed, that after many considerations and consultations of
  our own State and also of other States abroad, in way of government,
  we apprehend no way so suitable to our condition as government by
  way of arbitration. But if men agree themselves by arbitration, no
  State we know of disallows that, neither do we. But if men refuse
  that which is but common humanity between man and man, then to
  compel such unreasonable persons to a reasonable way, we agree that
  the five disposers shall have power to compel him either to choose
  two men himself, or if he refuse, for them to choose two men to
  arbitrate his cause, and if these four men chosen by every party do
  end the cause, then to see their determination performed, and the
  faultive to pay the arbitrators for their time spent in it. But if
  these four men do not end it, then for the five disposers to choose
  three men to put an end to it. And for the certainty hereof we agree
  the major part of the five disposers to choose the three men, and
  the major part of the three men to end the cause, having power from
  the five disposers, by a note under their hand, to perform it; and
  the faultive not agreeing in the first to pay the charge of the
  last, and for the arbitrators to follow no employment until the
  cause be ended, without consent of the whole that have to do with
  the cause.

  “Instance. In the first arbitration, the offender may offer
  reasonable terms of peace, and the offended may exact upon him, and
  refuse and trouble men beyond reasonable satisfaction; so for the
  last arbitrators to judge where the fault was, in not agreeing in
  the first, to pay the charge in the last.

  “IV. Agreed, that if any person damnify any man, either in goods or
  good name, and the person offended follow not the cause upon the
  offender, that if any person give notice to the five disposers, they
  shall call the party delinquent to answer by arbitration.

  “Instance. Thus, if any person abuse another in person or goods, may
  be for peace sake a man will at present put it up, and it may so be
  resolve to revenge: therefore, for the peace of the State, the
  disposers are to look to it in the first place.

  “V. Agreed, for all the whole inhabitants to combine ourselves to
  assist any man in the pursuit of any party delinquent, with all our
  best endeavors to attack him; but if any man raise a hubbub, and
  there be no just cause, then for the party that raised the hubbub to
  satisfy men for their time lost in it.

  “VI. Agreed, that if any man have a difference with any of the five,
  then he may have the clerk call the town together at his      for a
  trial.

  “Instance. It may be a man may be to depart the land, or to a far
  part of the land, or his estate may lie upon a speedy trial, or the
  like case may fall out.

  “VII. Agreed, that the town, by five men, shall give every man a
  deed of all his lands lying within the bounds of the plantation to
  hold it by for after ages.

  “VIII. Agreed, that the five disposers shall, from the date hereof,
  meet every month day upon general things, and at the quarter day to
  yield a new choice, and give up their old accounts.

  “IX. Agreed, that the clerk shall call the five disposers together
  at the month day, and the general town together every quarter, to
  meet upon general occasions, from the date hereof.

  “X. Agreed, that the clerk is to receive for every cause that comes
  to the town for a trial, 4_d._; for making each deed, 12_d._; and to
  give up the book to the town at the year’s end, and yield to a new
  choice.

  “XI. Agreed, that all acts of disposal on both sides      to stand
  since the difference.

  “XII. Agreed, that every man who hath not paid in his purchase money
  for his plantation, shall make up his 10_s._ to be 30_s._ equal with
  the first purchases; and for all that are received townsmen
  hereafter to pay the like sum of money to the town stock.

  “These being those things we have generally concluded on for our
  peace, we desiring our loving friends to receive as our absolute