        Lieutenant Winston Churchill arrived when the troops
      had been marched off.

        I have the honour to be, Sir,

                          Your obedient Servant,
                     ALEC. THORNEYCROFT, _Lieut.-Colonel,
                 Commanding Thorneycroft’s Mounted Infantry_.}}


                               H

        {{REPORT OF MAJOR-GENERAL TALBOT COKE, OFFICER
                    COMMANDING 10TH BRIGADE

        _Attack on Spion Kop, 23rd, 24th, 25th January, 1900_

                           Pontoon Bridge: 25th January, 1900.

        In accordance with your orders, General Woodgate
      assumed command of the column for the night attack, and
      settled his rendezvous near the Royal Engineer bivouac,
      for 7 P.M., 23rd instant. I bivouacked on the hill upon
      which the Connaught Rangers’ picquets are south of Three
      Tree Hill.

        The first shots were fired at 3.40 A.M.

        The valley between my position and Spion Kop, and also
      the top of that feature itself, was enveloped in mist
      until about 8 A.M., when it could be seen that our force
      held the schanzes on the summit. Shortly after it was
      seen to be exposed to a frontal fire from rifles, and to
      shell fire from its left front.

        In accordance with orders communicated to me by you, to
      send a battalion to reinforce, a signal message was sent
      to the Imperial Light Infantry, which occupied a covering
      position towards Wright’s Farm, to proceed at once to
      support, moving by the right flank of the kop. The 2nd
      Battalion Dorsetshire Regiment was ordered to the place
      vacated by the Imperial Light Horse.

        The position of Spion Kop was now seen to be exposed
      to a cross fire of artillery, and by your instructions I
      sent the Middlesex Regiment in support.

        About 11.10 A.M., in consequence of the regrettable
      news about General Woodgate, at your order I proceeded
      to the kop myself. On arrival there, I found the track
      leading up very much congested, and, from information
      received, I formed the opinion that too many men were
      getting into the trenches and stone cover above, and
      becoming exposed to the artillery fire; I accordingly
      checked reinforcements. Soon after this, on my way
      up, an urgent message was received from Colonel Hill,
      who commanded at this time on the right, calling for
      reinforcements, as his line had actually fallen back
      before, and lost some prisoners to the Boers, who were
      pressing on in front. I accordingly sent up the rest of
      the Imperial Light Infantry available.

        I now met Major Bayly, a Staff Officer, from the 4th
      Brigade, who informed me that an urgent message for help
      had been received from Colonel Crofton, who commanded on
      Spion Kop after General Woodgate was wounded. General
      Lyttelton had accordingly despatched the Scottish Rifles
      as an actual reinforcement, and a battalion of the King’s
      Royal Rifles against the hill to the north-west of Spion
      Kop. It was on the further slope of this hill that one of
      the Vickers-Maxim guns was placed. (This battalion worked
      its way some distance up the hill, but its action did not
      materially affect the situation.)

        I now again received an urgent appeal for support, this
      time for the centre and left. I sent the Scottish Rifles.

        I now had only as a reserve Bethune’s Mounted Infantry
      and the Dorsetshire Regiment. These I retained and they
      were not engaged at the actual front.

        The shell fire was most galling, and was aimed not
      only at the summit, but at the crest of the spur leading
      up, along which reinforcements and parties bringing back
      wounded had to pass. The fire came--

        1. From field guns firing shrapnel and common shell,
      situated, as I endeavoured to point out in a signal
      message to you, north-west of our position.

        2. From a Vickers-Maxim, in about the same direction.

        3. From a similar gun to the north-east.

        All these were beyond the effective rifle fire, and
      our supporting artillery on and about Three Tree Hill
      and on the Dragoon’s Maxim position apparently could
      not see them; consequently they poured, unchecked, an
      uninterrupted cross fire on to our position from about 8
      A.M. till dark--ten hours.

        Losses were very heavy, owing to the numbers
      necessarily assembled to hold back the Boer frontal
      attack, established under cover, and in which they showed
      gallantry in pushing forward to our lines. Colonel
      Crofton was now reported wounded, and the command of the
      troops in front devolved on Colonel Hill, Commanding 10th
      Brigade.

        So the situation continued until 6 P.M., when I wrote
      a report and despatched it to you by Colonel Morris,
      A.A.G. (I request that this document, to save labour,
      may be attached). I first showed this to Colonel Hill,
      and he concurred, even taking exception to my reference
      to a retirement. I had no doubt that the infantry, which
      had so gallantly held its own all day, would be able to
      continue to do so when the shell fire abated at nightfall.

        I accordingly went back to my reserves, having
      personally handed over command at the summit to Colonel
      Hill.

        About 9.30 P.M., in consequence of your orders, I left
      for your camp, leaving a Staff Officer (Captain Phillips)
      behind. The narrative must now be his.

        About 11.30 P.M. this officer, who was sleeping, was
      awakened by the sound of men moving, and found a general
      retirement proceeding.

        He allowed no one to pass after this, stopped the
      Scottish Rifles, and collected a large number of
      stragglers of the Dorset, Middlesex, and Imperial Light
      Infantry. Bethune’s Mounted Infantry and the bulk of the
      Dorsets remained in position as posted in support to the
      front line. The other corps had gone down the hill.

        He then published memorandum attached,[19] to all
      commanders, except Lieut.-Colonel Thorneycroft, who had
      gone on; but they did not act upon it, urging that they
      had had distinct orders from Lieut.-Colonel Thorneycroft,
      who, as far as I knew, was only assisting Colonel Crofton
      in a portion of the front line, to retire.

        We now held the spur to within about 300 yards of the
      summit, but the summit itself was evacuated. Signal
      communication could not be established at the moment, as
      the lamp which the signalling officer counted upon ran
      out of oil, and some time was lost in obtaining another.

        About 1.30 A.M. a person, not by his speech an
      Englishman, was brought in on suspicion by a picquet. He
      made a statement to the effect that a naval gun would
      shortly be brought up, and requested that it might not be
      fired on. This was the first intimation of any naval gun
      coming to Spion Kop.

        About 2.20 A.M. a naval officer reported that he
      had one 12-pr. gun below Spion Kop, near the donga on
      the west. He said he had orders to take this up to
      the summit. When asked whether he could do so before
      daylight, he said he could not. As it would be impossible
      to move the gun in any line after daybreak, on account
      of hostile fire, he was told to stand by in a place of
      safety. Signalling communication was now opened, and the
      attached message[20] sent.

        As Captain Phillips got no instructions, about 2.30
      A.M. he ordered vehicles back to a place of safety.
      All regimental wagons had been sent across by the
      Deputy-Assistant Adjutant-General (B), 5th Division.

        Shortly after 4 A.M., there still being no orders, and
      a mass of transport, small-arm ammunition carts, &c.,
      at the donga, steps were taken to cover this passage,
      and, with the concurrence of the Officer Commanding
      Dorsetshire Regiment, and Officer Commanding Scottish
      Rifles, certain dispositions were made with the latter
      battalion and about half the former. The other half of
      the Dorsetshire Regiment were employed in carrying away a
      large number of boxes (about 80) of small-arm ammunition,
      brought back from the front and elsewhere.

        The Imperial Light Infantry, Middlesex, and
      Thorneycroft’s had apparently gone home. Bethune’s were
      dismissed.

        It was now light, and Boer ‘sniping’ commenced. Captain
      Phillips reported to me at the donga, about 4.45 A.M.,
      when I was in possession of your order as to the pontoon
      crossing.

                              TALBOT COKE, _Major-General,
                                    Commanding Right Attack_.}}


                               K

                         {{CASUALTIES

  +------------+----------------+-----------------+--------------------+
  |            |                |     Officers    |       Men          |
  |   Date     |      ----      +-----------------+--------------------+