
against a tyranny. They live closest to hope and farthest from despair.

“Why,” said Maurice Healy, an Alaskan fur trader, “I’m only 700 miles
from a bank!”

You can bend and twist an Irishman, but you can seldom break him—the
records of insanity and suicide prove this. He “works hard in time of
peace and fights hard in time of war,” as President Roosevelt has said.
Impulsive, daring, constructive, indomitable, the Irishman has done
indispensable work in this land of his choice.

“May his shadow never grow less!”—so say we all.




                          REVIEW OF THE YEAR.

  LEADING EVENTS IN THE CAREER OF THE SOCIETY, FOR 1906, OR OF SPECIAL
                        INTEREST TO THE MEMBERS.


 Jan.   4.  Death of P. J. Kenedy, New York, senior member of the firm
            of P. J. Kenedy & Sons, publishers. Mr. Kenedy was a member
            of the Society.

 Jan.   6.  The U. S. gunboat _Hist_ arrived at the Charlestown (Mass.)
            navy yard today from Newport, R. I. Chief Boatswain Hugh
            Sweeney, who was in command, immediately turned the vessel
            over to Boatswain Patrick Shanahan and returned to Newport.

 Jan.  10.  Thirtieth meeting of the council of the Society is held
            this evening at Providence, R. I. Hon. Thomas Z. Lee of
            Providence presides.

 Jan.  10.  Following the council meeting just mentioned the members
            and friends partook of dinner at the Narragansett Hotel,
            Providence.

 Jan.  18.  Annual meeting and dinner of the Society. The event took
            place at the Hotel Manhattan, 42d Street and Madison Avenue,
            New York.

 Jan.  18.  A dinner to James McMahon was given at the Waldorf-Astoria,
            New York, tonight, by the officers of the Emigrant
            Industrial Savings Bank, that city. Mr. McMahon retires from
            the presidency of the bank after fourteen years’ service. He
            is a member of the Society.

 Jan.  29.  Death of Ambrose F. Travers, New York, a member of the
            Society.

 Feb.   1.  Governor Swanson of Virginia is inaugurated. He has
            appointed Hon. Joseph T. Lawless, of Norfolk, a member of
            the Society, to be a colonel on his staff.

 Feb.   4.  Capt. James Connolly of Coronado, Cal., a member of the
            Society, writes to Secretary Murray that he has contracted
            with a Boston publisher to bring out a volume of verse
            entitled “The Jewels of King Art,” in commemoration of a
            famous Irish monarch.

