"You are right there," agreed Tokalji coolly, "and I have just picked
two new men to take their places.  Zlacho and Petko are good enough
for ordinary thievery, but this job seems to be above them."

"That is well," said Toutou, partly mollified.  "There must be a
change in our methods or we shall fail in this coup.  I decided to
hasten on to Constantinople with my colleagues because I was sure the
two who have escaped us must come here sooner or later, and whenever
they come we shall find them.  But I cannot do everything.  It is for
you to follow their trails."

"Never fear!  We shall," replied Tokalji.  "My new men start out at
once.  One of them is a Frank like yourself; the other is a Tzigane."

"Ha; let me see that Frank," exclaimed Toutou.  "I know many of the
Franks who live with the Tziganes."

"Step out, Giorgi Bordu and Jakka," called Tokalji.

Nikka sunk his fingers in my arm in a warning grip, and we stepped
forth from the group of Tziganes clustered in front of the fire.
There was at least a chance that we should not be identified--but its
value was demonstrated the instant the firelight splashed over
Nikka's aquiline face and tense, febrile body.

"Surely, I have seen that lean fellow before," piped Hilmi Bey,
pointing at Nikka.

"I saw them standing near the Frank lord and his servant in Pera this
morning," said one of the spies.

"What of that?" shouted Tokalji angrily.  "It is true they followed
the Franks--which was more than you could do, Petko--and robbed them."

"No, the Franks followed them," protested Zlacho, the other spy.

"You lie, you dog!" bellowed Tokalji.  "You think to discredit them
because they will do the work you bungled."

Vassilievich pushed in front of the newcomers.

"Is it my imagination," he inquired softly, "or does the stocky one
bear a resemblance to the Americansky, Nash?"

"By jove, I think you're right!" exclaimed Hilyer, speaking for the
first time.

"Be ready," hissed Nikka from the corner of his mouth, without
shifting his eyes from our enemies.

His right hand was thrust into his waist-sash.

"I do not like this business," rasped Toutou, pulling a knife from
inside his vest.  "Somebody shall be tortured until he tells the
truth."

I felt a pressure between Nikka and myself, and Kara's voice
whispered:

"Run, you fools!  To the House of the Married!"

Nikka's pistol flashed blue in the firelight.

"Shoot, Jack!" he cried.

A ruddy flame jetted from his muzzle, and the spy Petko dropped dead.
Toutou LaFitte pushed Zlacho in the line of fire before himself, and
dived into the encircling shadows as Zlacho crumpled up with a broken
leg.  Tokalji, Hilyer, Vassilievich and Hilmi scattered.  I swung on
my heel and shot twice over the group of Gypsies by the fire.  I
could not bring myself to shoot at them, for there were women and
children close by.  Then a bullet whistled past my ear, and Toutou's
voice whined:

"No shooting! Use your knives! Take them alive!"

I had a fleeting glimpse of Kara, running at me with her knife raised.

"There are only two!" roared Tokalji.  "Pull them down!"

"Run!" I heard Nikka shout.

We pelted for the house on our left, the House of the Married, as
Kara had called it.  Despite Toutou's warning, a second bullet
spattered on the stones between Nikka and me; but we were poor marks
in the half-light, with people running in every direction, many of
them uncertain who were friends or foes.  I turned as I ran, and