

Watkins emerged from the cabin with the tools and the expression of a
martyr.  Nikka insisted that he was the best climber in the party,
and took charge of the rope.  Hugh and I carried the crowbars, which
we wrapped in sailcloth to prevent their clinking against the stones
of the wall.  Then we stepped on to the slimy rocks of the jetty,
Nikka in the lead.

It was a perilous climb to the shore, and we negotiated it slowly,
helping one another and taking every precaution to avoid making any
noise.  At last we found ourselves in the jumble of bowlders
constituting the breakwater at the foot of the sea-wall, which reared
its moss-grown battlements high overhead.  We turned to the left
here, and crawled over and through the rocks on the beach to a point
under the overhanging wall of the House of the Married.  From the
beach it looked unclimbable, but Nikka, after surveying its mounting
courses, shattered and riven by centuries of neglect, by earthquakes
and the ceaseless battering of the waves, removed his shoes and
started the ascent, an end of the grapnel-rope looped around his
waist.

We who watched him stood with knocking hearts for what seemed an
eternity.  Spread-eagled against the wall, he appeared as
infinitesimal as a fly in the darkness.  At first we could see him
when he slipped and caught himself or sprawled or clutched for
handholds.  But soon he became an indistinct blotch on the masonry,
and we held our breath, helpless now to aid him.  Our first knowledge
that he had succeeded came when he jerked up the grapnel lying on the
beach at our feet.  He hoisted it slowly, lest it clash against the
wall, adjusted its prongs and tossed down the knotted length of rope.

Hugh followed him with ease, bracing his feet against the wall when
he was tired.  Then I went up.  Then my uncle.  Watkins came last.
We stood, bending low, on the seaward verge of the roof over which
Nikka and I had fled the previous night.  It was now well towards
midnight, and a haze was settling over the city.  The _Curlew_ was
invisible even to us who knew precisely her location.  The large
courtyard to our right was a mere blot; the Garden of the Cedars in
front of us was marked by the whispering tops of its two trees.  The
silence was absolute.  The water lapped on the beach below.  That was
all.

Naturally and by right, Hugh took command.  It was his expedition.

"Do we go down through the trapdoor Jack and Nikka used or do we use
the rope to drop directly into the Garden?" he asked.
